---
title: MSU SBD Benchmark 2020
description:
preview_img: /assets/img/benchmarks/sbd/fade.gif
subprojects:
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/benchmarks/sbd/style.css">
<script src="https://code.highcharts.com/highcharts.js"></script>
<script src="https://code.highcharts.com/modules/exporting.js"></script>
<script src="https://code.highcharts.com/modules/export-data.js"></script>
<script src="https://code.highcharts.com/modules/accessibility.js"></script>
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://code.highcharts.com/highcharts-more.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.22/css/jquery.dataTables.css">
<script type="text/javascript" charset="utf8"
   src="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.22/js/jquery.dataTables.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript"  src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.5.1/jquery.min.js"></script>

<style>
    .subproject-links {
        display: flex;
        flex-wrap: wrap;
        margin-top: 20px;
    }

    .subproject-links a {
        background-color: #f0f0f0;
        color: black;
        font-size: 16px;
        padding: 10px 15px;

        text-align: center;
        text-decoration: none;

        margin: 4px 8px;
        border-radius: 10px;
    }

    .subproject-links a:hover {
        background-color: #e0e0e0;
        text-decoration: none;
    }

    table.deint {
        display: table;
    }
</style>

<div class="subproject-links">
    <a href="/benchmarks/sbd.html" class="button">Home</a>
    <a href="/benchmarks/sbd-participants.html" class="button">Participants</a>
    <a href="#methodology" class="button">Evaluation methodology</a>
    <a href="#how_to_submit" class="button">How to submit</a>
</div>

{:.center}
# MSU Shot Boundary Detection Benchmark 2020 — selecting the best plugin

{:.center}
## Comprehensive analysis of shot boundary detection methods

{% include benchmarks/sbd/top_images.html %}

This benchmark designed to evaluate different algorithms of the Shot Boundary Detection task.
The benchmark provides an opportunity to test your own algorithm for detection of cuts, dissolves, wipes and fades scene transition.

## What's new

- **16.12.2020** beta-version Release

## Key features of the Benchmark


*   **Extensive and diverse datasets** for shot-boundary detection testing:
    *   *120+ videos* from 2 datasets: RAI, MSU CC
    *   *1000+ minutes* with 1700+ shot transitions
    *   Cut, dissolve and fade transitions, complex scenes with high spatial and temporal complexity
*   **Beautiful and easy-interpreting visualizations** of most common quality metrics for each category of scene transitions:
    * F1 score, Precision and Recall
    * Speed performance depending on the resolution of the input video stream 


To participate in our benchmark, please follow instructions in the [How to submit](#how-to-submit) section.

We appreciate new ideas. Please, write us an e-mail to <sbd-benchmark@videoprocessing.ml>


## <span id="leaderboard"></span> Leaderboard

The table below shows a comparison of SBD algorithms by F1 score and speed.

{% include benchmarks/sbd/leaderboard.html %}

## Performance Charts

{% include benchmarks/sbd/performance_plots.html %}

## <span id="methodology"></span> Methodology

### Definitions

* Shot — the continuous footage or sequence between two edits or cuts
	* Cut Transitions — a sudden abrupt transition from one shot to another
		* In this case we mark the first frame of a new shot as shot with cut transition

{% include benchmarks/sbd/definitions_1.html %}

* Gradual Transitions — two shots are combined using chromatic, spatial or spatial-chromatic effects which gradually replace one shot by another
	* In this case we mark a continuous series of frames as a gradual transition. Algorithms must detect exactly one frame as a gradual transition from this series

{% include benchmarks/sbd/definitions_2.html %}

* Fade-out and fade-in Transitions are used to describe a transition to and from a blank image

### Video Dataset

Our dataset is constantly being updated. Now it consists of 120+ videos with a total duration about 1010 minutes with approximately 10500 scene transitions.

Our collection contains videos from popular RAI dataset, videos from MSU codecs comparison 2019 and 2020 test sets, and also videos collected from different sources (youtube.com, vimeo.com etc.). Our analysis has shown that groud truth in RAI contains imperfections, which we fixed in our collections. Dataset were extended by replacing every cut scene transition in these datasets with fades and dissolves.

Final dataset contains videos with different resolutions from 360×288 to 1920×1080 in MP4 and MKV formats. Videos include samples in rgb scale or in grayscale with FPS from 23 to 60.

{% include benchmarks/sbd/dataset.html %}


## <span id="participate"></span> Evaluation Steps

{% include benchmarks/sbd/evaluation.html %}

## <span id="how_to_submit"></span> How to submit

Send us an email to <sbd-benchmark@videoprocessing.ml> with the following:

* File with .exe extension with your algorithm and instructions to run it from console. When launched from console we expect your file to have following options:
    * `-i` — path to input video
    * `-o` — path to output of your algorithm
    * `-t` — threshold, if it required in your algorithm
* If you give us permission to publish results of your algorithm.

* (Optional) Any addition information about your algorithm.

* (Optional) If you would like us to tune the parameters of your method, write in instruction how can we change these parameters.

If you have any suggestions or ideas how to improve our benchmark, please write us an e-mail on <sbd-benchmark@videoprocessing.ml>.

## Contacts

For questions and propositions, please contact us: <sbd-benchmark@videoprocessing.ml>
